---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Notes added by Bo-Cai Gao in December, 2014:

a)  The main program for this land version of hyperspectral atmospheric
correction algorithm is "atrem_f90_cubeio.f". It uses a modified version of 6S
code for modeling Rayleigh and aerosol effects. The binary files, named
abscf_h2o_PC, abscf_co2_PC, ..., etc., are files for pre-calculated 19 layer
high spatial resolution absorption coffecients for H2O, CO2, N2O, CO, CH4, and
O2. "bndprms.f is a program for specifying atmospheric ozone and NO2 absorption
coeffcients as a function of wavelength. "sun_binary_PC" is a standard solar
irradiance curve.  "solar_irr_PC.f" reads in "sun_binary_PC", and coverts the
data to match the spectral resolution of any imaging spectrometers.
"tpvmr_init.f" is a program to set up atmospheric temperature, pressure, and
H2O volumn mixing ratio vertical profiles (similar to the LOWTRAN7 model
atmospheres).
   
      To compile this version of atmospheric correction algorithm, type: make
-f Makefile_gfortran_atrem_f90_cubeio

      To run the sample case for atmospheric corrections, type:
run_atrem_refl_f90_sample_HICO & All the input files are located in the
sub-directory "input", where we have two HICO wavelength files, one sample HICO
data in BIL storage order, one file named "*.input.txt" (which had about 20
lines in ASCII, and specified instrument name, date, time, image center lat,
lon, input imaing data file, output files, etc. This "*.input.txt" file can be
automatically generated (for many HICO scenes) using IDL procedures stored in
the directory "IDL_script_for_input_txt_file_generation". In this directory,
there are detailed instructions and listed steps for the automattic generation
of "*.input.txt" files. The sub-directory "USGS_HICO_DEM" contains a coarse DEM
file I created with data downloaded from USGS. The DEM file is used for finding
the image center surface elevation based on the lat, lon info contained in the
file "hico ... 100m.hico.hdr". After the automatic generation of input files,
atmospheric corrections for many scenes can be made in one batch job.  The
output surface reflectance data cube ("iss ... 100m.hico_refl.bil" is stored
inside the directory "output". The data can be converted to "bsq" data storage
order (band sequential) using IDL and ENVI. The "iss...100m.hico_refl.bsq" is
the surface reflectance data converted to BSQ storage order. The idl procedure
named "cloud_removal.pro" cna be used to remove thin cloud effects in the
atmosphere-corrected data.

b)  The program named "atrem_app_refl_f90_cubeio.f" is a program for deriving
the satellite level apparent reflectance data cube. It does not do any
atmospheric corrections. It removes the effects of solar irrandiance variation
with wavelength. The output data cube is useful for dianostic studies of data
qualities. To compile, type: Makefile_gfortran_atrem_app_refl_f90_cubeio To
make a test run, type: run_atrem_app_refl_f90_sample_HICO

c)  The program named "atrem_app_refl_plus_gas_removal_2013.f" is a program for
deriving the satellite level apparent reflectances plus the removal of
atmospheric gas absorption bands. It does not perform Rayleigh and aerosol
effect corrections. To compile, type:
Makefile_gfortran_atrem_app_refl_plus_gas_removal_2013 To make a test run for a
HICO data set, type: run_atrem_app_refl_plus_gas_removal_2013_sample_HICO To
make a test run for a sample JPL PRISM data set acquired form a low altitude
aircraft over Monterey, California, type:
run_atrem_app_refl_plus_gas_removal_2013_Monterey_PRISM

 !!!*** All the land versions of codes described above work for both aircraft
and satellite observations. The codes can accept one mean surface elevation per
scene as input. 

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Below are notes written in 2011.

Special notes;

  'atrem_f90_cubeio.f' and 'atrem_app_refl_f90_cubeio.f' are using the new
'cubeio.f90' for I/O operations. The output data cubes do not have 512 bytes of
headers.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Steps to compile and run the updated version of atrem code, which uses a F90
routine named "cubeio.f90" for I/O operations instead of the combination of a
f77 routine (slice_io.f) and a c routine (f_cubeio.c).  After the
modifications, atrem can only deal with input bil and bip image cubes, & bsq
data format is no longer supported.

   To compile, type:
      make -f Makefile_gfortran_atrem_f90_cubeio 

    If the compilation fails, try first to type:
         gfortran -fno-automatic -c cubeio.f90    
                               and then to type
         make -f Makefile_gfortran_atrem_f90_cubeio

   To run, type:
      ./atrem_f90_cubeio <./input/input_ASCII_text_file > ./output/zzz_refl_junk &

   ------------------------------------------
   For apparent reflectance calculations,
      make -f Makefile_gfortran_atrem_app_refl_f90_cubeio (for apparent
                                                      reflectance only).
    To run, type:
      ./atrem_app_refl_f90_cubeio <./input/input_ASCII_text_file > ./output/zzz_app_refl_junk &

    If the compilation fails, try first to type:
         gfortran -fno-automatic -c cubeio.f90    
                               and then to type
         make -f Makefile_gfortran_atrem_app_refl_f90_cubeio
 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
